termites are social insects working
together to form a characteristic sight
seeing all over the bush that's a
termite mound actually it's a tip of the
iceberg the termite City extends way
beyond that underground and its function
is fascinating it's essentially an air
conditioning system what it does is
maintain very specific conditions inside
the mound the conditions of the rain
forest when the termites first colonised
the Savannah some 30 million years ago
they brought the rain forest with them
to support a form of life that was
already wonderfully adapted to living
off Deadwood this is what these termite
mounds are all about you see those
structures there those white
honeycomb-like structures those are
called fungal combs they're wood pulp
and possibly bits of dead grass that the
termites bring in and build into that
structure and the reason the conditions
have to be the same as the rain forests
is because they grow a particular genus
of fungus called tomato my seas around
those honeycombs
the job of that fungus is to break down
the lignin and the cellulose inside the
wood and convert it into a form that the
termites can eat which actually you can
see there that a little white nodules
just present on the honeycomb structure
the termites lack the enzymes to break
down the wood efficiently so they've
become farmers tending to one giant
social stomach so there's a very intense
relationship between the termites and
the fungus you don't find that fungus
anywhere else actually in the world as
far as we know other than inside termite
mounds and it's thought that up to 90%
of the carbon locked up in lignin in
this part of Africa is released back
into the food chain again solely by
those termites and that fungus
you